EDU-15012 - Sales App extension hooks and types (#2694)
vtexdocs/dev-portal-content: docs/guides/VTEX-Sales-App/api-reference/sales-app-extension-hooks-and-types.mdx

| [`useCurrentUser`](#usecurrentuser)     | Hook     | Access authenticated user data.                                                                          |
| [`useExtension`](#useextension)         | Hook     | Access runtime context, such as the current account or the current extension point.                      |
| [`usePDP`](#usepdp)                     | Hook     | Access Product Detail Page data, specifically the current `productSku`.                                   |

Available types and their corresponding hooks include:

| Types                                     | Used by                  | Description                                                                         |
| ----------------------------------------- | ------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`CartItem`](#cartitem)                   | `useCart`, `useCartItem` | An item in the cart, including product, quantity, seller, pricing, and attachments. |
| [`ClientProfileData`](#clientprofiledata) | `useCart`                | Client data returned from the cart context.                                         |

> | [`ProductSku`](#productsku)               | `usePDP`                 | A product SKU, including identifying, quantity, and pricing fields.                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`ProductSku`](#productsku)               | `usePDP`                 | A product SKU, including identifying information, quantity, and pricing fields.                 |
```

| [`Totalizers`](#totalizers)               | `useCart`                | Summary totals from an orderForm or cart, such as shipping, taxes, or discounts.     |

## API reference

### `defineExtensions`

> The `defineExtensions` function registers one or more React components by associating them with the [Exploring Sales App extensions](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/exploring-sales-app-extensions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `defineExtensions` function registers one or more React components by associating them with extension points. More information in [Exploring Sales App extensions](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/exploring-sales-app-extensions).
```

```tsx src/index.tsx
import { useCart } from '@vtex/sales-app'

const TotalItems = () => {
const cart = useCart()

  const addItem = () => cart.addItem({
    quantity: 1,
    seller: '1',
    id: '8392'
  })

  return <button onClick={addItem}>Add to cart</button>

}
```

#### Parameters

The `useCart` hook doesn't accept any parameters.

#### Returns

The `useCart` hook returns an object with the following properties:

| Property | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `orderFormId` | `string \| undefined` | Order Form identifier for the current cart. |
| `value` | `number` | Total cart value. |
| `items` | `CartItem[]` | Items currently in the cart. |
| `totalizers` | `Totalizers[]` | Aggregated cart totals. |
| `clientProfileData` | `ClientProfileData` | Customer profile data associated with the cart. |
| `giftCards` | `GiftCard[]` | Gift cards currently attached to the cart. |
| `addItem` | `(data: UseCartAddItemData) => Promise<void>` | Adds an item to the cart. |
| `removeItem` | `(id: string, index: number) => Promise<void>` | Removes an item from the cart. |
| `addCoupon` | `(coupon: string) => Promise<void>` | Applies a coupon to the cart. |

> | `addGiftCard` | `(redemptionCodeOrGiftCard: string \| GiftCard, provider?: string) => Promise<void>` | Adds a gift card to the cart payment data. You can pass either:<br>* a redemption code (`string`) and optionally a `provider`, or<br>* a [GiftCard object](#giftcard), when you already have the gift card data. |

Reviewer: There is no "GiftCard" heading, so #giftcard will not resolve, and should be corrected. I believe it should be #addgiftcard.

> | `addGiftCard` | `(redemptionCodeOrGiftCard: string \| GiftCard, provider?: string) => Promise<void>` | Adds a gift card to the cart payment data. You can pass either:<br>* a redemption code (`string`) and optionally a `provider`, or<br>* a [GiftCard object](#giftcard), when you already have the gift card data. |

Reviewer: The `<br>` mixed with markdown ( * ) isn't rendering correctly and has to be fixed.

<img width="758" height="78" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8887ddbb-e2c0-4e17-8ab0-8849f1a98b7c" />

> | `addGiftCard` | `(redemptionCodeOrGiftCard: string \| GiftCard, provider?: string) => Promise<void>` | Adds a gift card to the cart payment data. You can pass either:<br>* a redemption code (`string`) and optionally a `provider`, or<br>* a [GiftCard object](#giftcard), when you already have the gift card data. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `addGiftCard` | `(redemptionCodeOrGiftCard: string \| GiftCard, provider?: string) => Promise<void>` | Adds a gift card to the cart payment data. You can pass either<ul><li>a redemption code (`string`) and optionally a `provider`, or</li><li>a [GiftCard object](#giftcard), when you already have the gift card data.</li></ul> |
```

> | `addGiftCard` | `(redemptionCodeOrGiftCard: string \| GiftCard, provider?: string) => Promise<void>` | Adds a gift card to the cart payment data. You can pass either: a redemption code (`string`) and optionally a `provider`, or a GiftCard object, when you already have the gift card data. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `addGiftCard` | `(redemptionCodeOrGiftCard: string \| GiftCard, provider?: string) => Promise<void>` | Adds a gift card to the cart payment data. You can provide either a redemption code (as a `string`) with an optional `provider`, or a GiftCard object if you already have the gift card details. |
```

> | `addGiftCard` | `(redemptionCodeOrGiftCard: string \| GiftCard, provider?: string) => Promise<void>` | Adds a gift card to the cart payment data. You can pass either<br><br>• a redemption code (`string`) and optionally a `provider`, or<br>• a GiftCard object, when you already have the gift card data. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `addGiftCard` | `(redemptionCodeOrGiftCard: string \| GiftCard, provider?: string) => Promise<void>` | Adds a gift card to the cart payment data. You can pass either<br><br>- a redemption code (`string`) and optionally a `provider`, or<br>- a GiftCard object, when you already have the gift card data. |
```

> | `addGiftCard` | `(redemptionCodeOrGiftCard: string \| GiftCard, provider?: string) => Promise<void>` | Adds a gift card to the cart payment data. You can pass either<br><br>- a redemption code (`string`) and optionally a `provider`, or<br>- a GiftCard object, when you already have the gift card data. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `addGiftCard` | `(redemptionCodeOrGiftCard: string \| GiftCard, provider?: string) => Promise<void>` | Adds a gift card to the cart payment data. You can pass either: a redemption code (`string`) and optionally a `provider`, or a GiftCard object, when you already have the gift card data. |
```

> | `addGiftCard` | `(redemptionCodeOrGiftCard: string \| GiftCard, provider?: string) => Promise<void>` | Adds a gift card to the cart payment data. You can pass either<ul><li>a redemption code (`string`) and optionally a `provider`, or</li><li>a [GiftCard object](#giftcard), when you already have the gift card data.</li></ul> |

Author: ```suggestion
| `addGiftCard` | `(redemptionCodeOrGiftCard: string \| GiftCard, provider?: string) => Promise<void>` | Adds a gift card to the cart payment data. You can pass either<br><br>• a redemption code (`string`) and optionally a `provider`, or<br>• a GiftCard object, when you already have the gift card data. |
```

#### Returns

The `useCartItem` hook returns an object with the following properties:

| Property | Type | Description |
|---|---|---|
| `item` | `CartItem[] \| undefined` | Cart item data for the current item. |
| `itemIndex` | `number \| undefined` | Index of the current item in the cart. |
| `changeItem` | `(data: UseCartItemChangeItemData) => Promise<void>` | Updates the item data. |
| `changePrice` | `(price: number) => Promise<void>` | Changes the item price when manual price is enabled.<br>To check whether the manual price is active, use [Get orderForm configuration](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/checkout-api#get-/api/checkout/pvt/configuration/orderForm). To enable it, use [Update orderForm configuration](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/checkout-api#post-/api/checkout/pvt/configuration/orderForm) and set `allowManualPrice` to `true`. |

##### `changeItem`

In the `changeItem` property, the `UseCartItemChangeItemData` type is an object with the following structure:

```typescript
type UseCartItemChangeItemData = {
  quantity?: number
  attachments?: Attachment[]
}
```

---

### `useCurrentUser`

> The `useCurrentUser` hook allows you to access current authenticated user data, like name and email.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `useCurrentUser` hook allows you to access current authenticated user’s data, like name and email.
```

> The `useCurrentUser` hook allows you to access current authenticated user data, like name and email.

Author: ```suggestion
The `useCurrentUser` hook allows you to access current authenticated user's data, like name and email.
```

    </div>
  );
};
```

#### Parameters

The `useExtension` hook doesn't accept any parameters.

#### Returns

The `useExtension` hook returns an object with the following structure:

| Property         | Type                   | Description                                                            |
| ---------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `account`        | `string`               | The current account name where the extension is running.               |
| `extensionPoint` | `ExtensionPointsType`  | The name of the extension point where your extension is hooked into.   |

---

### `usePDP`

The `usePDP` hook allows you to access Product Detail Page (PDP) data and perform mutations that will reflect on other entities within the Sales App data layer.

This hook is available in the following extension points:

* `pdp.sidebar.before`
* `pdp.sidebar.after`
* `pdp.content.after`

See all available extension points in the guide [Exploring Sales App extensions](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/exploring-sales-app-extensions).

#### Usage

```tsx src/index.tsx
import { usePDP } from '@vtex/sales-app'

> const Product= () => {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const Product = () => {
```

  const { productSku } = usePDP()

  return <div>Product name: {productSku?.name}</div>
}
```

#### Parameters

The `usePDP` hook doesn't accept any parameters.

#### Returns

The `usePDP` hook returns an object with the following property:

| Property         | Type                   | Description                                                     |
| ---------------- | ---------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `productSku`     | `ProductSku`           | Product SKU data for the current product detail page.           |

---

## Types

### `CartItem`

> The `CartItem` type represents the possible item types within a cart. Its signature and the types used follow this contract:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `CartItem` type represents represents an item in the cart. Its signature and the types used follow this contract:
```
